hello everyone
i'm alfonso larotte i'm a research
engineer here at protocol labs
in the resnet lab and today i just
wanted to share
an exciting project we are running
within the
resnet lab where we're trying to drive
up speed
to drive speed ups in file sharing
peer-to-peer networks and of course
trying to find these speedups we started
with
ipfs um so when we started
the first thing we did was to do a
state-of-the-art evaluation like any
other researchers to try and find
ways in which we could improve file
sharing but we realized something
that we didn't have a way of testing our
ideas so
of course we had an infrastructure with
a lot of ipfs nodes we could
try things locally but we didn't have a
way of comparing
the baseline with the ideas that we were
generating and that we were prototyping
so the first thing that we did was to
build a testbed to try file sharing
and a testbed that made
easy uh implementing new prototypes of
files sharing protocols
and evaluating their performance so
if you want to try it it's here in this
repo you will find
like a probe and a test bed the testbed
is the actual
uh test round uh i don't know if if you
know tesla but it's an awesome um
project within proto protocol labs to
test peer-to-peer protocols in a really
easy way
and here you will find all the plans
that we are using to
evaluate all of our prototypes and also
you will see a python notebook dashboard
that actually think i have it
here so that you can run different um
tests over the test ground testbed and
start
playing with your file sharing um
implementations over ipfs so
within the project how we we focus our
methodology
is in the following way we first if we
come up with an idea we first write
an rfc so that we open the idea uh to
discussion and
and we can like have a chat with
different
people to see if the idea makes sense
and once we feel comfortable with this
idea what we feel
is a prototype and then a proper test
evaluation
over our testbed and today what i want
to share is some of the
of the things we've been prototyping so
far and the results that we've reached
if this is a work in progress and the
reason why i'm talking here today is to
invite you all
to to share your feedback or collaborate
in any way
i mean if you join like here
you can find all our contributions and
all of our work around
this beyond bitswap project you can find
why
we are calling it beyondbeatswap um
and here you'd see the rfcs and if you
want to jump into the discussions you
want to propose anything or you want to
propose a collaboration go to these
issues and open an issue and we can
start discussion and see how we can
onboard you
into the the project um
but let's jump into the rfcs that we
have prototyped so far
uh as i've said we started i mean our
aim is to try and
improve file sharing in peer-to-peer
networks in general but we've started
of course with ipfs and by starting with
apfs we're starting trying to improve
to improve bitstrap that is the exchange
supermodel in ipfs
and the first thing that we realized is
that whenever you want content
um and you want to get some content from
the network
what your note does is save itself hey i
want to find this c id
and it sent one message i request to
your connected peers
saying i want this specific content and
if your peers your connected peers
doesn't have it
you resort to the dht to try and find
the guy that is storing
that cid that block or of that content
so we realized that bitstrap was not
using
um information from its surroundings
to to try and make more efficient that
look up
so what we did is our first prototype in
which we made some
bitswap nodes that they
listened to every request coming from
their connected peers and from the
network
and keep a registry so that the next
time they want to find
a specific cid they would go i mean they
would check
if someone had asked for that cid before
in our surroundings because potentially
then
they will have the content and we would
directly request the content from them
in this way um speeding up the discovery
of popular content because if someone
around me have asked for that content
i don't need to float the network with a
request of hey guys i want this content
i can go directly to the guy that i know
that have requested it before
we did with the testbed a few
preliminary tests to see how this work
and the task test plan that we designed
for this was a wave soft so we had
for instance one seeder one ipfs node
providing
content a specific content and then
leechers
came in waves requesting this content in
the baseline bitstrap you see here in
the left
you see that the more so subsequent
waves
become subsequent leechers of the waves
become cedar so that's why
we see that the the subsequent waves
have
a lower time to fetch because they have
easier
an easier way of finding the content but
what is cool to see
is how when we're using popular content
and we're inspecting one messages
we can reduce a lot the time to discover
cids
and to discover who has the content
reducing the time to discovery
of bitstrap so this was the first rfc
that we prototyped and the conclusion
of course this is not a perfect
implementation it probably needs a lot
of iteration
but the conclusion we had from here is
that we can improve uh
file sharing by getting information uh
from the protocol from other protocols
that we are not using right now
to discover the content then
we said http uses compression why
couldn't we
use compression to make files share to
make exchange
in a future pure network so again in the
scope of bitswap we tried
different strategies to see which one
led
to better results we tried a
block compression strategy in which
bootstrap compressed every block to try
and drive some speed ups
wasn't that good then we tried a full
compression strategy in which every
single bit swap message
was was compressed it wasn't that good
either
and then we tried the strip compression
and we said why
trying to compress messages that
in order to send them through the leap
peer-to-peer transport we need to
know the size beforehand and we wrap
the the liebherr stream into a
compressor
the same way that we do in in
uh jcp handler in http and
so that every byte that leaves the the
bitswap stream
is compressed and here is where we found
something
and actually what we realized is that
this implementation it wasn't
a protocol level
compression but a transport level
compression and after
some tests in our test bed we say hey it
was our aha moment and we realized that
maybe if we added compression to leap
youtube peer
not only pizza could benefit from it but
every single protocol application
building on top of of ipfs could
potentially
benefit from using uh compression so we
spent some time
trying to figure out where it made sense
to
to put compression in the lipid triple
stack and we did a
first prototype that we finished last
week uh where we added compression after
the muxers so that
every the stream of bytes coming from
every single
protocol stream is can be compressed
potentially compressed and sent
through the transport we are right now
running the tests in the test with
different data sets and hopefully
in a few days we will be able to give
some
more compelling uh results but
if you want to start playing with
compression and and would you want even
to implement your own compressor
this is a non-breaking change because we
implemented compression
inside the transport upgrader also and
you can this is the entry point if you
want to start
playing with compressional liquid
superior again this is a prototype
probably
it needs a lot of intuition and feedback
but that's why we're doing this talk to
invite you all
to give us all the feedback and finally
the
another one that we are implementing
right now just to give you a grasp of
what is in the oven right now is um
so we realized that we need more
information
to make more efficient discoveries of
content through
addition like one messages for instance
but we can also try
and improve the scope that we're having
right now to find the content because
right now
bitswap sends watch messages directly
only
to its connected peers and by adding
ttls to
to requests for content we can maybe
jump
one and one note further and find the
cid without without having to resort
to the dht so this is what we're trying
right now we are
we have a first implementation that is
uh
that can be improved but we've seen
similar behaviors in our initial tests
to the ones that we are seeing
with the want message rfc but again you
are more than welcome to help us with
this and trying to play with file
sharing in ipfs
i don't want to spend more time because
we have exciting talks thank you very
much for having me
and again reach me out for some feedback
some discussions or whatever you need